Comparing Common Vulnerabilities
================================

Software Bugs & Buffer Overflow
-------------------------------

An attacker can write over data and can also obtain unauthorised data.

Software Bug
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Flaw in computer program that causes the program to behave in a way that
was not intended.

Buffer Overflow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A Buffer is a reservation of memory for a specific size. An Overflow is
when the size of data is greater than the reservation.

Weak Passwords & Hard Coded Passwords
-------------------------------------

Strong Passwords
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Complex and long
-  12 to 16 character minimum
-  A-Z, a-z, 0-9, !@#$%

Also:

-  No dictionary words
-  Replacing letters with special characters or numbers doesn’t provide
   much security
-  Change passwords

Hard Coded Passwords
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Passwords embedded in software code. Once attacker knows the password,
they can compromise any system that uses the program.

**Mitigations:**

-  Store passwords outside of application in encrypted file
-  Could prompt for initial password
-  Match against hashes, not the actual password

**Inbound HCP:** Credentials used for access to program

**Outbound HCP:** Application uses password to access other application

Missing Encryption
------------------

Encryption
~~~~~~~~~~

-  Provides confidentiality and integrity
-  VPNs are used for data in transit
-  Makes it difficult

   -  to gain access
   -  to manipulate data

If data is missing encryption, it leaves the data exposed

Path Traversal
--------------

Allows attacker to navigate outside of original directory
(www.test.com/../../etc/password.file). Attacker can use error messages
to figure out the structure.

**Mitigations:**

-  Work without user input if possible
-  Blacklist special characters
-  Mask the structure by using indexes

   -  Enter ID 10
   -  Back end will navigate to Nebraska directory

SQL Injection
-------------

-  Use a tool to inject malicious code into legitimate code.
-  Easy to discover - Internet search can provide a lot of info
-  Prevalence is common
-  Easy to exploit
-  Impacts can be severe

**Impact:**

-  Successful attack can reveal usernames and passwords, PII, and
   sensitive corporate info.
-  Can modify data

   -  Create additional accounts
   -  Create fake, damaging information

-  Can bring down the system

   -  Attacker can remove necessary files

Cross Site Scripting & Cross Site Forgery Request
-------------------------------------------------

Cross Site Scripting
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Inject malicious code in order to control behavior of the site
-  Embed the code in a link

   -  Attacker sends the link to the victim
   -  Can shorten the URL to disguise it

-  Persistent XSS

   -  Changes the code on the server
   -  Each visitor that visits the site runs the malicious code

**Mitigations:**

-  Use a security encoding library
-  Don’t allow untrusted data in vulnerable areas of website code

Cross Site Forgery Request
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Takes advantage of legitimate Cross Site Requests

   -  Causes victim to run actions on an already authenticated session
   -  Runs code in the background unbeknownst to the victim
   -  May transfer money from an online bank

**Mitigations:**

-  Mitigate XSS
-  Secure random tokens
-  Have users utilise a browser that supports SameSite cookie attributes
